=pod

=head1 NAME

B<ipfixDump> - IPFIX file dumper

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    ipfixDump    [--in FILE_NAME][--out FILE_NAME]
                 [--yaf]
                 [--templates][--data][--stats]
                 [--version]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ipfixDump> is a tool to read IPFIX files and dump the contents in ASCII to
perform low level analysis of the files.  B<ipfixDump> uses libfixbuf to decode
the files and it does not need any user input as to what the file contains
as long as the IPFIX templates are at the beginning of the file.  Any records
that do not have a corresponding template will be ignored.

By default,
B<ipfixDump> uses the standard information model provided by libfixbuf.  If
B<ipfixDump> is given the B<--yaf> switch, it will include the B<yaf> CERT
private enterprise information elements.  If B<yaf> was configured to
enable DPI (plugins) B<ipfixDump> will also add the DPI elements that
B<yaf> can export.

B<ipfixDump> supports Options templates and records.  B<ipfixDump> will
write all IPFIX templates and data records to the output file.  It will also
write message and set headers when present.

B<ipfixDump> supports IPFIX structured data in the form of basicLists,
subTemplateLists, and subTemplateMultiLists.

B<ipfixDump> currently does not support displaying sequence numbers.

=head1 OPTIONS

The following options are available for B<ipfixDump>.

=over 4

=item B<--in> I<FILE_NAME>

The I<FILE_NAME> is the filename to read.  The string '-' may be used to
read from standard input (the default).

=item B<--out> I<FILE_NAME>

I<FILE_NAME> should be the filename to write to or the string '-' may be used
to write to standard output (the default).

=item B<--yaf>

If present, B<ipfixDump> will include the available B<yaf(1)> CERT private
enterprise information elements.  If B<yaf(1)> was configured with plugins
enabled, B<ipfixDump> will add all of the deep packet inspection elements
to the information model.  By default, the standard IPFIX information model
is used (standard elements defined by IANA).

=item B<--template>

If present, B<ipfixDump> will only write the templates present in the
input file.

=item B<--data>

If present, B<ipfixDump> will only write the data records present in the
input file.

=item B<--stats>

If present, B<ipfixDump> will only write overall file statistics - which
include the number of templates present, the number of data records present,
and the number of IPFIX messages present.

=item B<--version>

If present, print version and copyright information to standard error and exit.

=back

=head1 Examples

In the following examples, the dollar sign ("$") represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.

=over 1

 $ ipfixDump --in - --out -

 $ ipfixDump --in /data/ipfix.ipfix --out /data/text.txt --yaf

=back

=head1 Known Issues

Bug reports may be sent directly to the Network Situational Awareness team at
E<lt>netsa-help@cert.orgE<gt>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Emily Sarneso and the CERT Network Situational Awareness Group Engineering Team,
E<lt>http://www.cert.org/netsaE<gt>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

yaf(1), yafscii(1)

=cut
