=pod

=head1 NAME

B<yafzcbalance> - PF_RING ZC Load balancer for YAF.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    yafzcbalance [--in DEVICE]
                 [--cluster CLUSTER_ID]
                 [--num NUM_YAFS]
                 [--core CORE_ID]
                 [--time TIME_CORE_ID]
                 [--pidfile FILENAME]
                 [--daemon]
                 [--log LOG_FILE]
                 [--user BECOME_USER]
                 [--stats SECONDS]
                 [--version]
                 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<yafzcbalance> is a tool that load balances packets received on one or more
interfaces to multiple consumer processes.  This process hashes the incoming packets
and sends them to the appropriate B<yaf(1)> process listening on a cluster ID/queue.

B<yafzcbalance> is based off of the example application, zbalance_ipc,
that is distributed with PF_RING.  Changes have been made to simplify 
the process to run specifically with B<yaf(1)>.

B<yafzcbalance> allows you to bind the application to a particular core. Additionally,
you can bind the time pulse thread to the same or another core.

B<yafzcbalance> or a similar application is required for running B<yaf>
on zc interfaces. B<yaf> simply listens on a cluster ID, not on the zc interface.
This application will listen on the interface(s) and distribute packets to
the appropriate cluster.

=head1 OPTIONS

The following options are available for B<yafzcbalance>.

=over 4

=item B<--in> I<DEVICE>

The I<DEVICE> is a comma-separated list of devices. Typically when the device is
in zero-copy mode, each device name will be in the form zc:<device_name>.

=item B<--cluster> I<CLUSTER_ID>

I<CLUSTER_ID> is the unique ID for the PF_RING cluster. All applications belonging
to the same cluster can share incoming packets in zero-copy.  There can be multiple
queues within a cluster that can be used for filtering and distributing packets 
towards multiple applications.

=item B<--num> I<NUM_YAFS>

I<NUM_YAFS> is the number of B<yaf(1)> applications that B<yafzcbalance> will
distribute packets to.  The default is 1.

=item B<--core> I<CORE_ID>

Bind B<yafzcbalance> to core I<CORE_ID>.

=item B<--time> I<TIME_CORE_ID>

By default, hardware timestamps are disabled in zero-copy mode. B<yaf(1)>
requires that a packet have a timestamp, so B<yafzcbalance> creates a 
thread that will add a timestamp to the PF_RING packet header. Use this
option to bind that thread to core I<TIME_CORE_ID>.

=item B<--pidfile> I<PID_FILE>

I<PID_FILE> is the complete path to write the process ID of B<yafzcbalance>.

=item B<--daemon>

Run B<yafzcbalance> as a daemon.

=item B<--log> I<LOG_FILE>

Write any log messages and process statistics to I<LOG_FILE>.  By default,
process statistics are disabled.  To turn on periodic process statistics,
use the B<--stats> option.  Otherwise, you can send B<yafzcbalance> the
SIGUSR1 process signal to write process statistics to the I<LOG_FILE>
or stdout if B<--log> is not present.

=item B<--user> I<BECOME_USER>

After opening the live capture device, drop privilege to the named
user I<BECOME_USER>. 

=item B<--stats> I<SECONDS>

If present, B<yafzcbalance> will write process statistics to the I<LOG_FILE>
or stdout every I<SECONDS> seconds.  B<yafzcbalance> will write the per-interface
statistics.

=item B<--version>

If present, print version and copyright information to standard error and exit.

=back

=head1 Examples

In the following examples, the dollar sign ("$") represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.

=over 1

 $ yafzcbalance --in zc:p6p1,zc:p6p1 -c 99 -n 2 -d -l /var/log/yafzcbalance.log
 
 $ yaf --in 99:0 --live zc --out localhost --ipfix tcp --ipfix-port=18000 --silk
 
 $ yaf --in 99:1 --live zc --out localhost --ipfix tcp --ipfix-port=18001 --silk

=back

=head1 Known Issues

B<yafzcbalance> will not start if B<yaf> is already running on the cluster.
If you see this error message:

    *** cluster recovery not supported ***
    pfring_zc_create_cluster error [Operation not supported]Please check your hugetlb configuration

Terminate the B<yaf> processes and restart B<yafzcbalance>.  B<yafzcbalance> must
start before B<yaf>.

Bug reports may be sent directly to the Network Situational Awareness team at
E<lt>netsa-help@cert.orgE<gt>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Emily Sarneso and the CERT Network Situational Awareness Group Engineering Team,
E<lt>http://www.cert.org/netsaE<gt>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

yaf(1)

=cut
